## 1. Budgeting and planning with the Pricing Calculator

* In this module, we'll cover section two of the official ACE exams study guide. Our first section concerns using Google Cloud's online pricing calculator. One of their first stages in setting up a new project is budgeting, because multiple variables can go into pricing a particular cloud product having a way to pull all that information together into a unified report, without having to actually configure that product first is very helpful. This is where Google's pricing calculator is useful. The pricing calculator is a multi-section form. When you have some possible configurations, you can use it to estimate cost for the different products you'll be using. The pricing calculator, it gives a total estimated cost that you can view in daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, yearly, in three-year increments. The cost is only an estimate however, total costs may differ depending on how close to your estimated usage matches your actual usage. The estimate is also not a binding contract, it's just a planning tool. Let's look at how the planning calculator works.

## 2. Planning and configuring Compute resources

* In the next section, we'll cover planning and configuring your project's compute resources. Compute resources are the virtual machines and servers you'll use to perform computing work. There are several different types of compute resources to choose from, and each has its strengths and special capabilities. We'll go over preemptible VMs in another section. So here we'll concentrate on the differences between Compute Engine, Google Kubernetes Engine, and App Engine. And how to decide which is the best computing resource for your project. In this decision chart, you'll find these three options, a list of some of their special capabilities, and some typical use cases. For example, if you're planning to create an app type program with no real special runtime requirements, but don't want to configure and maintain a server to support it, then App Engine is probably your best choice. If you need to run containerized programs or microservices on premises and one or in multiple cloud environments, or both, then Google Kubernetes Engine is your logical choice. Because it handles the orchestration of containerized apps without a requirement that they be run on a particular OS or in a particular location. A good way to study with this decision table is to copy it, remove all the text except for the headers, and then complete it with everything you can remember about the options shown. Then compare it to the original and you'll instantly see where you may need to do a little bit more study. 

##  3. Planning and configuring data storage

* If you have computing workloads, you'll almost always have data as a requirement, or a result, and often both. What to do with that data and where to store it is a huge consideration when planning your Cloud solution. This section focuses on two levels of data storage concerns. The first-level concerns dynamic data that will be used for powering applications' reports. You'll need to decide which type of database is the best to use when storing that data. The second level concerns more static data. Think of images and files here. Because storage and retrieval often have costs associated with them, and because it's not unusual these days for companies that have petabytes of data to maintain, these costs really can add up. Our first subsection concerns the differences between, and special benefits of, the major database services offered by GCP. Breaking down the information in this chart, we can see that the six data storage database options shown fall into four different categories for how the data they store is structured. Relational databases are the kind that most people are familiar with. These databases store information in structured columns and rows, and data is retrieved is the SQL. Examples of this type of database are Cloud SQL and Cloud Spanner. The use cases for relational databases vary, but in general if you need information on drive and e-commerce site, or content management system, you may want to choose one of the more traditional relational database options. Certain types of financial data also required a stricter structure of a relational database because that structure helps maintain data integrity. Non-relational databases store data in a much less structured format which is sometimes referred to as a Documents. Because of the less rigid structuring of the data, the format of incoming data can be changed over time. Perhaps by adding additional information occasionally to newer records without affecting the integrity of any older data still using previous formats. Example of this type of database are Cloud Datastore and Cloud Bigtable. As you can see, Non-relational database use cases have some overlap with Relational database use cases. If you know you'll need to quickly iterate, or add a lot of features to a project, using a non-relational database can allow you to keep adding fields to support new features without having to rebuild the entire database each time. If you expect to really heavy data traffic, Cloud Bigtable is engineered to handle that kind of load. Another type of database storage is the Object database, where data is stored as binary large objects or blobs. An example of this type of database is Cloud Storage. If your computing needs involves storing a lot of images or other binary media, Cloud Storage is a logical choice for your data storage needs. Finally, we have the option of using a Warehouse Scale Database BigQuery. BigQuery also uses a SQL, but it's built specifically to handle the huge loads that real time data streaming, analytics, and reporting can place on a database. Another consideration for data storage is, do you want to fully minute service? Many of Google's data storage options are fully managed. Which means you don't have to worry about upgrades or other routine minutes. You'll still need to make sure your data is backed up however. Again, making a blank copy of this table and completing it from memory is a great way to pinpoint areas you may have missed in your studies. The second consideration for data storage concerns choosing among various options for storing files. Cloud Storage let's you choose among four different types of storage classes. Regional, Multi-regional, Nearline, and Coldline. Here's one way to think about them. Multi-regional and Regional are for high-performance Object Storage. Nearline and Coldline are for backup and archival storage. Multi-regional storage is appropriate for storing frequently accessed data, Website content, interactive workloads, or data that's part of mobile and gaming applications. People use regional storage in contrast to store data close to their Compute Engine virtual Machines, or the Kubernetes Engine Clusters. This proximity gives better performance for data intensive computations. The availability of the storage classes varies with Multi-regional having the highest availability of 99.95 percent, followed by regional with 99.9 percent, and Nearline and Coldline with 99.9 percent. Retail storage lets you store your data in a specific GCP region. Us Central One, Europe West One, or Asia East One. It's cheaper than multi-regional storage, but offers less redundancy. Multi-regional storage costs a bit more but it's Geo redundant. That means you can pick a broad geographic location like the United States, the European Union, or Asia and Cloud Storage stores your data in at least two geographical locations separated by at least 160 kilometers. Nearline storage is a low cost highly durable source service for storing infrequently accessed data. The storage class is a better choice in Multi-regional storage or Regional storage, when you plan to read or modify your data on average once a month or less. For example, if you want to continuously add files to Cloud Storage implied to access these files once a month for analysis, Nearline storage is a great choice. Coldline storage is a very low cost highly durable storage service for data archiving, online backup, and disaster recovery. Coldline storage is the best choice for data that you plan to access at most once a year due to its slightly lower availability, 90 day minimum storage duration cost for data access, and higher per operation costs. For example, if you want to archive data or have access in the event of a disaster recovery event. As for pricing, all storage classes incur a cost per gigabyte of data stored per month with Multi-regional having the highest storage price, and Coldline having lowest storage price. Egress and data transfer charges may also apply. In addition to those charges, Nearline storage also incurs an access fee per gigabyte of data read, and Coldline storage incurs a higher fee per gigabyte of data read.

## 4. Planning and configuring network resources

* Our last subsection deals with planning and configuring network resources for your Cloud solution. When you have your compute resources established and have decided how to store your data, you need to decide how to configure access to your servers and data. We'll focus on the issue of load balancing in this last section. Load balancing is when you have two or more identical clusters that have been created so that if the load becomes too great or if one or more servers should fail, the remainder can assist with or take over handling the load. This is one way to create applications and services that are highly available. Load Balancing allows multiple service or clusters of servers to function as a single computing resource. Load balancers can also be configured to add or remove these servers or server clusters from the system to better meet demand. This is known as auto-scaling. If you need cross-regional load balancing for a web application use HTTP as load balancing. For Secure Sockets Layer traffic that is not HTTP, use the global SSL proxy load balancer. For other TCP traffic that does not use Secure Sockets Layer, use a global TCP proxy load balancer. Those two proxy services only work for specific port numbers, and they only work for TCP. If you want to load balance UDP traffic or traffic on any other port number, you can still load balance across a GCP region with the regional load balancer. Finally, all those services are intended for traffic coming into the Google network from the Internet. But what if you want to load balance traffic inside your project, say between the presentation layer and the business layer of your application? For that, use the internal load balancer. It accepts traffic on a GCP internal IP address and load balances across Compute Engine VMs. Cloud load balancer considerations can be divided up as follows: global versus regional load balancing, external versus internal load balancing, and traffic type. Use global load balancing when your users and instances are globally distributed. Your users need access to the same applications and content, and you want to provide access using a single anycast IP address. Global load balancing can also provide IPv6 termination. Use regional load balancing when your users or instances are concentrated in one region. You only require IPv4 termination. Global load balancing requires you to use the premium tier of network service tiers. For regional load balancing, you can use the standard tier. GCP's load balancers can also be divided into external and internal load balancers. External load balancers distribute traffic coming into the Internet from your GCP network. Internal load balancers distribute traffic within your GCP network. The type of traffic your load balancer will handle is another factor in determining which load balancer to use. HTTP and HTTPS traffic require global external load balancing. TCP traffic can be handled by global external load balancing, external regional load balancing, or internal regional load balancing. UDP traffic can be handled by external regional load balancing or internal regional load balancing.

## 5. Links to resources mentioned in this module:

Google Cloud Pricing Overview:  https://cloud.google.com/pricing/
Google Cloud Pricing Calculator:  https://cloud.google.com/products/calculator/
Google’s Pricing philosophy: https://cloud.google.com/pricing/philosophy/
Compute Engine Documentation:  https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/
Choosing the right compute option in GCP:  https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/gcp/choosing-the-right-compute-option-in-gcp-a-decision-tree
Choosing a compute option: https://cloud.google.com/docs/choosing-a-compute-option
Storage Classes:  https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/storage-classes
Cloud Storage Options:  https://cloud.google.com/storage-options/
Load Balancing:  https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing/docs/load-balancing-overview