## 1. Welcome to Module 3

* Welcome to preparing for the AC Sam module 2, where we'll discuss setting up a cloud solutions environment. Let's look at the first section of the study guide, cloud projects and accounts. First, a word about how to optimize your study plan. Although many people will just go into the full list of resources, taking all the courses and working through all the labs, and may be helpful to know more about the areas you should probably spend the most time on. To studying more effectively, it helps if you're able to one, assess your skill level. Do you already have experience with all the skills in a particular section? Do you know how to apply these skills to typical business task or requirements? Two, use that information to update your study plan notes. If you need to review or practice with certain skills, write that into your study plan notes for reference. Three, create a list of resources that will help you gain or hone these skills. Again, depending on your experience, you may need to take the entire suggested program of courses and labs, or only concentrate on the areas that you lack. Suggested documentation pages and other resources for more in-depth study will be available in the resources section of this course. We'll now go over each section in a bit more detail during the rest of this course, giving an overview of each section, and explaining some of the fundamental concepts from each general area to help you get started.

## 2. About cloud projects and accounts

* Now, let's dive into the material for this module. Here the skills [inaudible] concerns essential for setting up new cloud projects and accounts. The task listed under this section involve different areas of the Google Cloud console including, the projects, user API and Stackdriver consoles. Creating projects and assigning users to the predefined roles of those projects are very basic first tasks. So we'll look at these first two items together. First, let's look at the overall structure of a simple files Google Cloud account. This is a diagram of an example of resource hierarchy within an organization. You notice that all resources are arranged under the organization node including projects. Resources can be grouped and managed together according to your organizational structure. You consume GCP resources by attaching them to or enabling them within a project. This is how they're built and tracked and given permissions to operate. Therefore, a console always have at least one project. Creating a basic project is quite an easy, but it requires some attention to labeling and naming. The two items highlighted are provided by the person setting up the project. Project ID once set cannot be changed. So think this one through carefully. The third project number is automatically generated by the GCP system and also cannot be changed. The main thing to remember, when it comes to organizing your projects, is that everything is arranged in a hierarchy. The top of this hierarchy is the organizational node. Everything else rest under this main node. Folders are used mainly for organization and after all may make a company structure. For example, you may find folders for marketing, finance, HR and IT within the organizations resource hierarchy. When you have a new organization node, by default, it lets any user and the domain create projects and billing accounts. But best practice with a new organization node is to first decide, who on your team really should be able to do those things. Then, you can assign each user to a role or roles for easier and more secure administration. Permissions in GCP are inheritable. This means that each resource that sits below another one in the hierarchy includes all of the permissions given to its parent. Parent permissions given to a child resource cannot be removed by that child or by another resource at that same level, or by anything further down in the hierarchy. For example, if the parent gives a user or role permission to edit a resource, a child of that parent cannot take that edit permission away. A child resource however, can have permissions to the ones inherited from its parent. This is how you get finer grain control over who can use or modify resources. What is a role in the context of GCP resources? A role is simply a collection of permissions. Generally, roles exist to define what tasks can be performed on certain resources and when assigned to users, who can perform them. Roles help to simplify, assigning and maintain permissions on project resources. They assist administrators in providing everyone on the project with just the right amount of access and no more to get their jobs done. Three main types of roles can be applied to GCP users and resources: Primitive, predefined and custom. We will not go into custom roles in this module. Let's look at the three primitive roles first. These primitive roles are the owner, editor and viewer. If you're a viewer on a given resource, you can examine it but not change its state. If you're an editor, you can do everything a viewer can do plus change its state and if you're an owner, you can do everything an editor can do plus manage roles and permissions on the resource. If you have several people working together on a project that contains sensitive data, primitive roles are probably not fine enough. Fortunately, GCP, AIM provides other finer grain types of roles. Permissions are set to define who can do what on which resource. This is generally a very coarse way of assigning permissions in the project because it generally means assigning view, edit or administrative levels of access. However, GCP also offers predefined roles, which help narrow the scope down to who can do what from a long lists of unique possibilities on that particular type of resource. Each service has a predefined list of possible permissions that can be granted to users working on that resource. Predefined roles bundles selected permissions up into collections that correlate with common job-related related business needs. So instead of being granted all permissions or an ad hoc list of separate permissions, there might be missing something important. A user can simply be assigned a predefined role instead. Compute engine for example, offers a set of predefined roles that can be applied to compute engine resources in a given project, a given folder or wherever an entire organization. Let's look at this in more detail. In this example, we see a partial list of the compute engine permissions to have them bundled into the predefined instance admin role. The ellipsis indicate that there are more options not shown. These permissions defined what that role is allowed to do with virtual machines. Other predefined roles in compute engine have their own customized list of permissions depending on what task that role is generally expected to perform. Having these predefined roles in place for common job functions saves time and administrated overhead. Google keeps these up-to-date with any new permissions that are deemed required for that role. Would it just giving everyone every permission on a servers be much simpler to maintain? Simpler, maybe but a much more risky because this violates the security principle of least privilege and it increases the chance of accidental or deliberate damage to a company's vital services or data. For example, an accountant might need access to reporting data generated on a compute engine instance but does not need to be able to delete that compute engine instance. Giving them permission to do so would not be good security practice, would increase the risk of accidental deletions and might in fact cause the company to violate certain regulations.

## 3. About cloud projects and accounts, continued

* Now, let's look at the benefits of linking users in your organization to projects by their G Suite identities. Many new GCP customers gets started by signing into GCP console with a Gmail account. To collaborate with their teammates, these Google Groups gather people who are in the same role. This approach is easy to get started with, but its disadvantage is that your team's identities are not centrally managed. For example, if someone leaves your organization, there's no centralized way to remove their access to your Cloud resources immediately. GCP customers who are also G Suite customers can define GCP policies in terms of G Suite users in groups. This way, when someone leaves your organization, an administrator can immediately disable their account and remove them from groups using the Google Admin Console. GCP customers who are not G Suite customers can get these same capabilities through Cloud Identity. Cloud Identity lets you manage users and groups using the Google Admin Console, but you do not pay a received G Suite collaboration products. Another important task when setting up a new Cloud account is enabling the APIs required to develop, monitor, and report on projects. There are actually four ways you can interact with Google Cloud Platform. But here, we'll only talk about APIs. We'll discuss the Command Line Interface in the last section. The services that make up GCP offer application programming interfaces so that code you write can control them directly. These APIs are what's called RESTful. In other words, they follow the Representational State Transfer paradigm. We don't need to go into much detail about what that means here. But basically, it means that your code can use Google services in much the same way that web browsers talk to web servers. The GCP Console includes a tool called the APIs explorer that helps you learn about available APIs interactively. These API's spec parameters and documentation on parameters and how to use them is built in. You can try the APIs interactively even with user authentication. Suppose you've explored the methods and tried a few requests to an API, and now you're ready to build an application that uses it. Does that mean you have to start coding your application from zero? No. Google provides client libraries to take a lot of the drudgery out of the task of calling GCP from your code. There are two types of libraries. The Cloud Client Libraries are Google Cloud's latest and recommended libraries for its APIs. They adopted native styles and idioms of each language. Unfortunately, sometimes a Cloud Client Library doesn't support new services and features. In that case, you can use the Google API client library for your desired languages. These libraries are designed for generality and completeness.

## 4. About cloud projects and accounts, continued

* Last in this section is provisioning Stackdriver accounts. If you want your servers and services to remain available, you need a way to continually monitor them for performance and stability. One powerful option for logging and monitoring your servers and applications in Google Cloud is a product called Stackdriver. What is Stackdriver? Stackdriver a Multi-cloud monitoring and management service that aggregates metrics, logs, and events. It is integrated monitoring, logging, and diagnostics. Stackdriver manages across several platforms including GCP, AWS, and On-premises. It provides developers, operators, and security professionals with a rich set of observable signals that speed root cause analysis, and reduce mean time to resolution. Stackdriver is already integrated into many GCP services and products. For example Compute Engine, App Engine, Google Kubernetes Engine, Cloud SQL, Cloud Datastore, BigQuery, Networking, and Cloud Pub/sub have Stackdriver monitoring capabilities already built-in. Stackdriver logs by default are only stored for a limited number of days, the number of days depends on the type of log. Admin Activity audit logs are kept for 400 days which helps if you need to do forensics. Data Access audit logs are kept for only 30 days. You can export logs for analysis or longer storage. The best way to study for this section is to actually use Stackdriver. If you've never actually use Stackdriver, the Stackdriver fundamentals quests will give your hands-on experience for provisioning and using a Stackdriver account. The URL for this quest is in the resources section of this course.

## 5. Billing management overview

* Managing budgets and bills is an important part of managing projects. The essential skills in the session include creating billing accounts, linking projects, establishing budgets and alerts, and setting up billing exports. To manage billing accounts and to add projects to them, you must be a billing administrator. To change the billing account for an existing project, you must be an owner on the project and the billing administrator on the destination billing account. When you create a new project, you're prompted to choose which of your billing accounts you want to link to the project. If you only have one billing account, that account is the one that will automatically link to your project. If you don't have a billing account, you must create one and enable billing for your project before you can use many Google Cloud platform features. Avoid surprises on your bill by creating budgets to monitor all your Google Cloud platform charges in one place. After you've set a budget amount, you set budget alert rules that are used to trigger notifications. So you can stay informed of how you're spend is tracking against your budget. To set a budget alert, you must be a billing administrator. You can apply budget alerts to either a billing account or project. You can set the budget to an amount you specify or match it to the previous months spent. Setting a budget does not cut API usage. You services will continue to operate at costs, even if the budget alert has been triggered. This last point is important, because if that cool game app you've created finally goes viral one day, the last thing you want to have is your billing alerts shut it down.

## 6. Command line interface

* Lastly, we'll have a look at some of the things you should know about GCP's command line interface, or CLI. Much of this centers around the Cloud software development kit, or SDK. The Google Cloud platform console has a command line interface to GCP that's easily accessible from your browser. It's called Cloud Shell. From Cloud Shell, you can use the tools provided by the Google Cloud SDK without having to install them elsewhere. What's the SDK? We'll talk about that next. The Google Cloud SDK is a set of tools that you use to manage your resources and your applications on GCP. These include the gcloud tool, which provides the main command line interface for Google Cloud platform products and services. There's also gsutil, which is for Google Cloud storage, and bq, which is for BigQuery. The easiest way to get to the SDK commands is to click the Cloud Shell button in the TCP console. You'll get a command line interface in your web browser on a virtual machine with all these commands already installed. You can also install the SDK on your own computers, your laptop, your on premises servers, or virtual machines and other clouds. The SDK is also available as a docker image, which can be a really easy and clean way to work with it if your applications are containerized.

## 7. Links to resources mentioned in this module:

Google Cloud Platform Overview:  https://cloud.google.com/docs/overview/
Google Cloud Identity:  https://cloud.google.com/identity/
Google Cloud Pricing Calculator:  https://cloud.google.com/products/calculator/
Google Cloud Billing documentation: https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/
Stackdriver Fundamentals Quest:  https://www.qwiklabs.com/quests/35
Cloud SDK installation and quick start   https://cloud.google.com/sdk/#Quick_Start
gcloud tool guide   https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/