## 1. About GCP certification

* In this course, we'll cover how to prepare to take the Associate Cloud Engineer Certification exam. This course by itself will not prepare you to take the ACE certification exam. It will, however, introduce you to many important concepts and useful tools you can use to devise your own custom study plan for preparing to take the exam. In this module, we'll discuss GCP certification and why it can be a good career move, how to put together a study plan for preparing to take the ACE exam, how to determine whether you're ready to take the test, and where and how to register. We'll then give you some testing tips for taking the certification exam. Let's first familiarize ourselves with GCP certification and why we here at Google believe it's a great way to help advance your career. Becoming Google Cloud certified is a great way to show the world that you can design, develop, manage and administer application, infrastructure, and data solutions on Google Cloud technology. The Google Cloud Certification designation shows that you both have the technical knowledge required and that you've also demonstrated the necessary skills to leverage Google Cloud technology in a way that can transform businesses and meaningfully affect the people and customers they serve. Let's look more closely at how becoming a Google Certified Associate Cloud Engineer can help you level up your career. As this quote illustrates, it's not enough to just recall information. You need to be able to use it to solve real-world problems. For that reason, Google Cloud Certification specifically test your ability to understand GCP technology and apply what you know to meet business needs. Google has many different certifications including the Associate Cloud Engineer Certification. Most of Google's certifications are created as a support various Cloud technical job roles. This certification, however, has a slightly different focus. It focuses on demonstrating knowledge and skills that are helpful for all job roles. That means that ACE is a powerful certification on its own. It's also a very effective starting point towards attaining other types of certification. Business computing in the Cloud is still in its early stages and is expected to grow tremendously over the next few years. The demand for IT professionals who understand Cloud computing will certainly continue to keep pace. In fact, a lack of skill Cloud engineers in the job marketplace is already being cited as a major challenge. The demand for Cloud engineers is already strong and is expected to keep growing. Associate-level Cloud engineering ACE certification is a job and a task-based certification based on Google Cloud Platform technology. This means it measures the test-takers' ability both to recall technical information and apply it. ACE certification test knowledge of Google Cloud Platform's fundamental concepts. This means it's a good starting point for those new to Cloud or new to GCP and can also be used as a first step towards any of the professional level certifications.

## 2. Devising a study strategy

* Let's talk a bit about how to design and implement your own personal study strategy. We recommend building a customized study plan to manage the process of preparing to take your ACE certification exam. If you've never created the study plan before, don't worry. We'll show you how to pull one together in four easy steps. First, in order to make your study experience as effective and as efficient as possible, you need to know what to study and how to dive deeply into each topic. To help understand the scope of the exam, let's first discuss what a typical Associate Cloud Engineer is expected to be able to do. Associate Cloud Engineers set up and deploy cloud applications, monitor cloud operations, and manage enterprise cloud solutions. You may be curious what separates an Associate Cloud certification from a Professional Cloud certification. Since this helps define the scope of the study plan you'll be creating, let's go over that a bit. As you can see, there's some overlap between the two levels of certification. However, only the professional-level certification expects the exam taker to know how to evaluate case studies in design solutions to meet business requirements. The associate level is mainly concerned with technical requirements and customer implementation. Concentrating your efforts on these two areas will help you to maximize your return on the time you'll spend studying for the ACE exam. Google offers an ACE exam study guide as a resource, which is organized into five main topics: setting up a cloud solution environment, planning and figuring a cloud solution, deploying and implementing a cloud solution, ensuring successful operation of cloud solution, and configuring access and security. This course will follow the same pattern of organization, and specific resources for each of these topics will be covered in more depth later in each of the following modules. We'll also use this general outline as our frame of reference in the study plan example we'll look at later.

## 3. Devising a study strategy, continued

* Once you understand the general scope of the exam, the second step is to look for resources that will help you gain the knowledge you need. In this section, we'll briefly cover some of the types of resources you might use for your studies. This is not an exhaustive list of resources available, but it's a very good overview of what you'd expect to find from Google to help you to prepare for the exam. The ACE certification also has a preparation book available. The publisher is Wiley & Sons and the book officially made its debut in April 2019 at next 2019. It's available in both print and e-book format. Here are the official exam guide and practices and URLs. The exam guide list the general outline of the topics you may encounter on the exam. The practice exam is a short version of the official exam, and will familiarize you with the types of questions you may see there. Again, these resources are not meant to be an exact list of the subjects and questions you'll encounter in the official certification exam. They are however very useful for guiding your studies and assessing your readiness to take the test. Google also supplies official public documentation for all of its products and services. The documentation site is organized into several sections: quick starts, solutions, and product manuals which are further organized into categories like compute, storage, and networking. In each of the following modules, we'll call a specific documentation resources to help you study in that section in preparation for the exam. Google and its trading partners also offer a wide variety of instructor-led courses. The IoT courses suggested for preparing for the certification are architecting with Google Cloud Platform: Infrastructure, Google Cloud fundamentals: Core infrastructure. You'll find URLs for these courses in the resources section of this course, and also on the official A certification information page. The corresponding online courses are the first five courses of the architecting with Google Cloud Platform specialization on Coursera. Google Cloud Platform Fundamentals: Core infrastructure, Essential Cloud Infrastructure: Foundation, Essential Cloud Infrastructure: Core Services, Elastic Cloud Infrastructure: Scaling and Automation, and Elastic Cloud Infrastructure: Containers and Services. Qwiklabs gives you the chance to get hands-on practice with Google Cloud technologies at your own pace. Quests are sets of Qwiklabs centered around a specific set of skills. You can find links to these Quests in the resources section of this course. Do you need to gain some hands-on experience with Google Cloud products and services? Google has an offer for that. Sign up for an account and you'll be granted $300 worth of product usage at no cost to you. You'll have 12 months from the time you're account is created to use this credit. This is a great way to get the hands-on experience that'll help you pass the certification exams. As mentioned, there's also a preparation book avail for further certification. The official Google Cloud Certified Associate Cloud Engineer Study Guide will be available for purchase through commercial booksellers. It's available in both e-book and print formats.

## 4. Devising a study strategy, continued

* Now that you have some idea of the types of resources available to you, it's time to find out what you do and do not already know. Having this information will help you devise a study strategy. They'll help you prepare to take the certification exam. The rest of the modules in this course will help you fill in this part of your study plan. Use the exam guide to broadly gauge what you know and what you don't. When you find a topic you need to work on, make notes on your study plan, be specific where possible so you can better target your study time. Next, use the practice exam to gain a finer understanding of the specific areas you need to concentrate on for the exam. Make note of which questions you missed and using the practice exams feedback on those questions, trying to determine why you miss them and where those weaker areas fit into your overall study plan. Note in each section resources that will address the areas you need to work on. We've already covered many of the general resources that are available to you, but you'll also find additional specific suggestions for more in-depth study in the resources section of this course. The final step in building your personal study plan is to put everything together in a plan that you can use effectively to help you study. Hours of concentrated effective study help to carefully place facts into your memory. This is the best way to prepare for any test. Keep it daily and weekly study schedule. Study in one hour plus a time with breaks of about 5-10 minutes in between. So the actively move around, stretch, read aloud. If you can, mix reading with audio and video to keep your mind engaged. Study with purpose, have a goal for each session. Estimate the time required to prepare, given what you've learned about the scope of these M, and the areas you need to study, number of hours you can commit to study each week, and any deadline you may have to complete your certification. Be sure to also take into consideration how you learn best and use that insight to customize your study plan for optimal results. Put all of your notes together into a completed study plan. A complete plan will have an outline of topics to cover, notes on this specific areas you want to spend more study time on gained from earlier steps, and a number of weeks you will require to cover everything. Leave enough time at the end of your plans to retake the practice exam and fill in any gaps in your knowledge that may remain. This is a sample study plan. How your study plan looks depends on which areas you need to work on the most in your personal schedule. Please take the weights shown here as just an example.

## 5. Are you ready?

* You've researched the exam topics, discovered what you know and what you don't, and put together a study plan that works for you. How will you know when you're ready to take the exam? Follow through with your personal study plan, then retake the practice exam at least once afterwards to catch any weak areas you may have missed. Remember that the cloud engineer practice exam will only familiarize you with the types of questions you may encounter on the certification exam. Successful completion of the practice exam doesn't guarantee you'll pass the certification exam. A good informal guideline for readiness is being able to complete the practice exam in 45 minutes or less, with at least 80 percent of the answers marked as correct. If you have access to other practice exams, you can use those as well to gauge your readiness.

## 6. Taking the exam

* Let's go over some tips for actually registering for and taking the exam itself. All Google certification exams are administered in person at a Kryterion Testing Center. In order to take the exam, you'll need to create an account on the Webassessor site. Creating this account is free, but you'll need either a credit card or a voucher to pay for the exam. With a Webassessor account, you'd look over our testing centers near you, and then select one or more of them to view their available testing dates. Choose the testing date and complete the checkout process and you are ready to take the test. The general test-taking tips here are mainly just common sense. The purpose of this list is to help you be your best on testing day and to keep calm and focused on doing well. Get a good night's sleep before the test. Review your notes but don't cram. About 30 minutes before the test eat an apple or have an energy bar. Be well-hydrated. Take a walk to help you calm pre-test jitters. Always arrive early and take a moment to relax and reduce your anxiety. This brief quiet period will boost your confidence. Use the restroom before the test begins. Read the test directions very carefully and watch for details. Maintain a positive attitude. Don't let more difficult questions raise your anxiety and steal your valuable time, move on and find success with other questions. Plan to finish early and have time for review. There is a bit of a science to taking a multiple choice exam. Here are some tips to keep in mind. Read the question stem carefully. Make sure you understand exactly what the question is asking. Try to anticipate the correct answer before looking at the options. More than one answer may be possible on multiple choice tests. When you have multiple valid answers, the best answer uses common sense. It's the choice of knowledgeable and experienced individuals and it best fits the question. Take questions at face value. If certain details are omitted, then they are unlikely to contribute to the selection of the best answer. Pay attention to qualifiers like usually, all, never, or none, and in keywords like the best, the least, or except. There's no penalty for guessing, so try not to leave questions unanswered. If you have to guess, eliminate the obviously false choices first. The first answer that comes to your mind when you read the question is usually the correct answer. Don't change an answer unless there's clear evidence that your answer is incorrect, you misread or misunderstood the question, or you recall more information or further correct answer elsewhere in the test.

## 7. Links to resources mentioned in this module

[Associate Cloud Engineer certification main information page](https://cloud.google.com/certification/cloud-engineer)
[Associate Cloud Engineer certification exam guide](https://cloud.google.com/certification/guides/cloud-engineer/)
[Associate Cloud Engineer practice exam](https://cloud.google.com/certification/practice-exam/cloud-engineer)
[Google Cloud main documentation page](https://cloud.google.com/docs/)
